good morning
how many of you have a perfect pricing
model for your company
any lack of self-confidence here
my name is martin mikkos i am ceo of
hackerone
hacka1 is the company you turn to when
you really want to get hacked
because the best way to avoid getting
hacked is to try to get hacked
and if you can get hacked by criminals
or by nice guys pick the nice guys which
we represent
but i'm here today to talk about pricing
because
i don't know why they asked me to talk
about pricing maybe because i've made
all the pricing mistakes anybody can
make
in their career
i've been involved in pricing of
games and mobile phones
open source software which we gave away
for free
and other things so i'm absolutely no
expert on pricing but i've had i've made
a lot of mistakes
and that's what i'm here to share with
you today
in 30 minutes
and because none of you has a perfect
pricing model you certainly need to be
here and learn how to price your
offering correctly because if you don't
you're screwed
there is no successful sas company that
doesn't have good pricing
like it's completely impossible for you
to succeed by whatever metric you have
if your pricing isn't more or less right
and i know because i've tried
so what is a perfect pricing model like
these are things i've learned from
my colleagues i've been listening to
them when they talk about it
one is
in today's world we must make it easy to
make the first purchase
and many times we don't and making it
easy is requires many different things
pricing is one
because everybody in this world has too
many things on their mind
so you need to remove any hurdle for
customers to sign up
so you must make it easy i'm not saying
you have to make it inexpensive i'm
saying you must make it easy to make the
first purchase maybe you make it easy by
making it so expensive that it flies by
on a different radar or something but
you must make it easy
and good pricing will
scale while you sleep
like your customers will come back and
say hey i helped myself to some more
i decided to upgrade i decided to do
more and when it happens without your
everyday interaction
it's much better
sure you can call them and say hey
customer wouldn't you like to upgrade
shouldn't you go for the enterprise
version but when you do that it doesn't
scale as well and you spend a lot of
time talking to customers which can be
good it's good to have a
close connection to a customer but if it
can scale
on its own it's even better
and then
like with all sales the problem is not
you the seller selling to
you the customer the problem is always
for the seller to explain it to his or
her boss and for the buyer to explain it
to the economic buyer
because every purchase has an economic
buyer in the background who is not
excited about the product
who doesn't care about the vendor who
doesn't have a personal relationship
necessarily
so
your pricing should be such that when
it's taken to the economic buyer it will
go through
attack one it meant we had to increase
our pricing
so when i joined the company we sold on
a commission based where we say okay
customer if you pay a thousand dollars
in bounties to this hacker we will take
twenty two hundred dollars as commission
was a beautiful model
very economical effective
economic buyers didn't like it
it was not predictable
when we said you will pay only for what
you use
the economic buyer said sure but
what do i put in my budget
and we said we don't know
if it's a lot of money it's good news if
it's a little money it's good news
economic buyers don't like that
so an economic buyer will usually say
just give me one number which holds and
will agree on that and that's fine
so we increased our pricing and started
selling subscriptions for much higher
amounts and the customer is much happier
because they can predict
every year what it will cost
an ideal pricing is also one which is
painful for competitors to match
not many will remember but when aws
launched their cloud service they were
cloud services around for instance sun
microsystems had one
but aws came out with something that
cost a tenth of what they had
back then
that's a pricing model that was
impossible for sun to even consider
and now the rest is history and
everybody is practically everybody's
running on the aws cloud some running on
microsoft and google and a few others
but but with pricing that became
difficult for
competitors to follow they had the whole
market open for themselves
and many times when you make it painful
for complete competitors to match it is
because
you take a long-term view and you
compromise on some short-term benefit
because you know that in the long run
you will win
but then and
an existing player may not be ready to
compromise all of that they have much
more to lose
so if you can do that then your pricing
is in pretty good shape
here's an example on the slide zooms
pricing everybody loves zoom i love zoom
best video conferencing you could find
and it's so wonderful you sign up and
it's free
whoa
and then
if you are a small team you pay 15 per
month per license
and if you're a small business you pay
20 per month per license and then if
you're a large enterprise it's the same
why did they do this
why wouldn't the enterprise license be
more expensive than the small business
and
if they are the same price why are they
presented as two separate skus here
i must admit i don't know i haven't
asked zoom
but
but i'm thinking that maybe it says
contact sales on enterprise so maybe
when you click that you'll have to agree
on a much bigger pre-purchase you have
to commit to some volumes
and then maybe they start from a higher
unit price but you get a discount and
discount ends up at this i don't know i
think it's
it is
confusing to me looking at it but at the
same time i know how fantastically well
they are doing so they have a good
reason for setting their price like this
but it's a very common model to start
with something irresistible like a free
offering and then it looks like it it's
not too bad it's just 15 per month per
license
but in your company you have many months
and many licenses
so it actually adds up to good business
for them
the customers look for always look for
convenience and predictability of cost
whatever they tell you
there are of course exceptions to
everything but even when they say
quality is all we care about
they will often perceive it in a form of
convenience
they want you to make life easier for
them
they have a job that needs to get done
and if you can get it done for them
they're ready to pay money for it and
the more you can bring convenience to
them the more you can charge
and they do want to know that they
have a feeling of being in control of
the cost that they can predict the cost
i'm not saying it shouldn't grow i'm
saying they can predict where it will go
they can make their own models
here's another example of a super
successful company databricks
five years ago zero in revenues today
it's one of the fastest growing
companies in silicon valley
and
i just said that customers want
convenience and i didn't say so but
intended to say that they need
simplicity
and here you have an example of a vendor
who started by taking a step of
complexity in order to achieve
simplicity
they have something called dbus
what are they
would you like to buy 10 dbus from me
like what are they they're data bricks
units
so they invented a metric of their own
that they define
that they charge for
and then it's easy then you say okay the
jobs lite compute for in standard
edition is just seven cents per dbu
that's pretty cool
so simple okay i have seven cents i can
buy one dbu in the standard edition for
joblite's compute
and if i'm a really advanced user i may
go all the way down to the all-purpose
compute in the enterprise edition and i
pay 10x
for the same unit
to me that's very impressive
like
the act of getting a customer to agree
to a metric that the vendor has
defined a dbu
and then have a pricing elasticity
pricing elasticity
what happened here
people in the background could you get
the slides back
and then
they they have pricing elasticity that
goes from 7 cents to 65
cents
per dbu
so pretty advanced
and of course it works because they sell
to a very technical
technical audience but then when you
look at their numbers and their growth
it's just astonishing how they keep
growing because they build something
that will grow on its own it will grow
well while you sleep
because you're sitting there using the
product and you're like okay we need a
few more few million more of these units
now because we are launching a new
product or a new project and it keeps
growing
so but a lot of work goes into pricing
like this to set it clear because of
course every competitor will be looking
at this it's a public price list and
show how they are cheaper less expensive
more effective whatever so when you
publish your pricing like this you are
subjecting it to
competitive analysis by others so it's
not like you can just dream up these
numbers you have to be able to justify
them to a customer who will come back
and say but this other vendor charges
just 53
cents per unit
but anyhow when when nrr is high you
know your pricing is working
nr nr stands for net revenue retention
meaning
if you spend
a dollar today
what will you spend in the next period
for with the same vendor
on average
so when you spend money on your
mobile phone bill you hope it will stay
flat most months a little bit go up when
you travel or something but you you try
to keep it manageable
but look at this
snowflake another
very very successful company they have
an nr of 169
so on average if you become their
customer and you pay them a hundred
dollars
in one period in one year the next year
you will pay them 169.
you're adding 69 dollars in the next
year on average across the whole company
unbelievable
what kind of business is this that has
so much demand
that customers just come and say i need
more more more more and they keep
growing at 169
which means that
if they sign up no new customers their
revenues is growing 69
next year
that's pretty amazing too and it has to
do with pricing that it's set
such that it's very attractive for
customers to come on board it's
strategic you go to your cfo and say oh
cfo this strategic project we have it's
going to be a little bit more expensive
and the cfo say okay i don't care as
long as we get it done on time and we
can launch our product and our ml is
working or whatever
so very impressive
pricing that they that must be behind
this
here it is
they don't have dbus they have credits
again what's a credit who defines what's
a credit
they define the vendor defines the
credit
and here the elasticity isn't that large
the cheapest one is two dollars per
credit the most expensive one twice that
price
databricks had a 10x
elasticity somehow of course i'm
comparing apples to oranges so don't
this is not a scientific study
but think about the psychology of
pricing
the mechanism here you come in and say
okay two dollars per credit i need a few
thousand of them it's good
but then as you start using more more
people using it
you start using storage
and suddenly it grows into a significant
purchase and we saw it on the previous
slide 169 net revenue retention
so they
in my world this is the ideal pricing
model because it works so beautiful and
it's not like we hear everybody
complaining about their price i'm sure
customers complain about price but not
that much and then by the way
if customers complain about price that
doesn't mean the price is too high
it is too high when they abandon you
if they complain and they don't abandon
you in a weird way they're confirming
that your pricing is pretty good
like our
role as vendors is not to please our
customers but to serve them
and if they choose to stay with us and
pay
our high prices it means that they
believe in the value or that we made it
impossible to migrate away which is a
different topic
i was involved in this when i was ceo of
mysql and we competed against oracle
everybody hated oracle for their pricing
and i always said if you hate them for
the pricing come over to us run on mysql
we will all your problems will be gone
many did
many didn't
business people are afraid of abandoning
even a product they hate that's over
priced
so
the psychology of pricing is deeper than
just rational thinking
if you're wondering about pricing and
how to set it and should you do freemium
or not
a way to think about it is lifetime
value of the customer
and this is something we learned from
the gaming industry where that's all
they do
and i think whenever you
would like to see into the future go and
talk to your friends who are in the
gaming industry they are creating the
future for us
they've invade invented all the
platforms we use now for our virtual
events they've invented pricing they're
driving nft they're doing all these
modern things that our futures future
civilization will need and when they
think about pricing it's all ltv
you come in and you start playing
and they learn quickly what kind of
player you are
are you one who will spend money
yes no
a lot of money little money are you very
competitive are you very social
do you are you hanging in there all the
time or coming only sporadically they
will figure that out very quickly
and in a game if you're not
spending money they'll start showing ads
to you
to get at least some money back for you
being there in their game and then when
they identify the whales the ones who
are spending a ton or a ton of a ton
they start giving them special access
special treatment special badges special
everything
a little bit like in vegas when you
spend a lot of money suddenly the drinks
are free and the gaming industry do this
because they look at the long the
lifetime value of the customer and they
know it up front and they say we don't
care we can take the money now we can
take it later but before you leave we
will have
received our money from you
so that's how how they price this is
what
justifies freemium models this is what
justifies discounts and everything
because you can see that the lifetime
value is so high
i'll give you an example
there's a wonderful startup in vietnam
called
i forget what the startup is called but
they are have developed a game called
axi infinity how many have played axi
infinity
okay you you have no you don't have your
pricing models in shape and you don't
play games
i'm profiling you so axe infinity is a
crazy game it has transacted over two
billion dollars of value in nfts
non-fungible tokens
and they have been around as a game for
just half a year or something it's going
crazy it's nuts
and when you play the game for some
reason
you get an urge to plant some green
shrub
in your game
in your environment
and you are ready to pay 68
for it
for green shrub in a game
that will go away in a moment
talk about brilliant pricing
like what is it that makes you
push the button to
make a bid on
green shrub number 695
it's just unbelievable and they've
transacted 2 billion
which is more than the revenue and all
these companies together because you
don't have perfect pricing models yet
so so we must learn from
those who are in the frontier and
testing out new things they are learning
things that we didn't know
i haven't played the game either but
but i'm i'm aware of it and i think it's
a wonderful example of
the new distributed world where people
from all over the world have sort of
gathered in vietnam to build a gaming
company and here they go and are
transacting so much in crypto
so what they learn in the
gaming world and elsewhere open source
as well that
some people will spend time to save
money
others will save money and spend money
to save time
it's that simple
and many times we grow up as the ones
spending a lot of time
we sit there tinkering with the software
installing it ourselves managing without
support and at some point we get to a
level of establishment in society in our
economy to say ah i don't have time
anymore i'll pay for this because i
would rather my time is more valuable
than my money
but in the beginning of your life and
for some people always
money is more valuable than time
and this influences customer behavior
especially with software where we have a
lot of users who will never spend money
for your software but they might be your
best
audience the most demanding the ones who
teach you how the software should evolve
the ones who find the vulnerabilities
and the bugs like they can be very
valuable to you but they give you no
money but they give you a lot of time
and then you have the others who come in
and say i don't care about all that just
can i just pay you to get rid of the
problem can i just pay you and you will
install it you will manage it you will
support it you will upgrade it you will
take care of all the problems can i just
pay it to go away
and people are like this and
organizations are like this and in every
buying instance
the company the buyer will decide
whether it's
going to spend time or money to make
this happen
so when you can use that in your pricing
you can find a pricing that suits both
groups because you may not want to say
no to one of them you want you need both
but they have completely different
behavior
with pricing and we saw that in open
source software with mysql that most
people never paid anything like we had
15 million users who paid us nothing
and then we had 12 000 customers who
paid us money
but
the users benefited from the fact that
we had paying customers and could
develop the product the paying customers
benefited from the fact that there was a
user community who wrote
handbooks blogs tests tools anything you
needed around it so it became a
synergy between the two groups because
we set the pricing right
as for pricing models which one should
you pick
it's very context sensitive and
situational so i i cannot make a
recommendation to any of you but here
are some models that i've listed and
i make a note that those are not
mutually exclusive you can mix and match
some of these together
but
many of us sell subscription fees a
fixed fee for a month or a year and the
benefit to the customer is that it's
very predictable
we tell you what it cost and that's what
it will cost
the disadvantage for a customer may be
that they may pay for things they are
not using
we may say the annual subscription is
twelve hundred dollars and no matter
what you use
and it's easy and convenient but you may
as a customer be paying for things
you're not using
so then maybe you do consumption pricing
and say no it's completely flexible it's
based on what you do
then the customer benefit is
paying only for what they use but the
disadvantage it's can be difficult to
predict
and the economic buyer in the background
may say no i don't want that couldn't
you just set a fixed price
so that we know
so that we can predict it we can budget
it
most companies have tiered pricing and
what i showed you was this good better
best you always need good better best
you need three
tiers you can have four don't have more
than that it's human psychology some
people will always choose the cheapest
some people will always choose the most
expensive most people will choose the
one in the middle
so the purpose of the edge cases is to
frame the pricing
you may sometimes need to have an
enterprise version that nobody is buying
but it gives an idea to the customer of
what the price could be
so
you know in terms of psychology you may
need to show a very big number so that
the customer can go to their own boss
and say boss i bought the product but i
didn't buy the most expensive version
and then the boss will say good good job
this was excellent
excellent purchase so there's a lot of
psychology in how this works of course
you need to justify it with real stuff
but
with the amount of
stimuli we get every day we have so much
to think about that we can't analyze
everything down to the pure
rational logical conclusion sometimes we
just make a quick decision
there is all-in-one pricing and
component pricing which sort of is
similar to subscription versus
consumption pricing whether how you what
kind of granularity you allow
and sometimes i compare to a country
club where you're a member of the
country club and you get access to all
the services whether you use it or not
you pay a high hefty annual fee maybe
you pay extra for using the golf course
or something but many of them have high
prices that would include most of it to
make it predictable on both sides
and then freemium of course means
it starts free and then there's a
premium that's where the word freemium
comes from
which is very common in the gaming world
in open source software and other
software
products where the cost of distribution
is so low that you can give away a free
version
and it doesn't cost you as a vendor too
much
but if you go for a freemium you must go
all in
you can't sit there thinking okay we'll
give away this for free but let's hope
not many will take it no you need to
hope that everybody will take it like if
you do a freemium you have to go all in
and believe in it and hope that as many
as possible will download it or use it
and then you can manage their customer
journey from there because you are
thinking about lifetime value
and from premium to the lifetime value
is
a customer journey that you need to
manage and build for them
many of us work in startups and it's
important to
know that pricing that worked early on
may not work when you grow
like you may think you had a great start
of your company two three years huge
growth and suddenly
something is not right it's possible
that the pricing model you picked
doesn't lend itself to a wider audience
doesn't lend itself to the the
established markets you're now going
after so you must have the readiness to
change your pricing model mid-flight
that's really hard
you call customers say hey customer we
know you love us and we love you but
we have a new pricing model coming
they don't like it
sometimes you have to grandfather me and
say okay everybody who's on board you
can live on the old pricing for the next
two years
and all new customers will use the new
pricing but these are difficult
transitions for a startup as it grows to
pick a pricing that really
can deliver the value that it needs to
deliver
then uh platitude towards the end here
the best pricing makes most both the
buyer and the seller successful
it sounds
like a platitude because it sort of is
but it also is what works
why are there companies that year in
year out perform well it is because the
pricing works it provides enough of
revenue stream for the vendor to keep
developing and winning and investing and
whatever they need to do but also the
customers are sitting there saying yeah
i actually like this i'm still ready to
be a reference i'll speak highly of it
i'll call my friends and tell them to
use zoom or asana or game site or
whatever i'm using slack because i'm so
happy with the value and i don't mind
paying the price and i know that the
price is going up but it still is worth
every cent and every dollar so when that
happens you get into a positive spin
where you get a lot of goodwill in the
market because people will
happily speak favorably of you as a
vendor and this applies both in b to c
and b to b worlds because people gossip
a lot people chat a lot about vendors so
whatever you say on your website is just
one part of the truth most of the truth
is happening in other places it's other
people having opinions on you and if
they keep saying that your your product
is crap and the pricing is high then at
some point you'll lose customers
so you really need to look for something
that works but you don't have to worry
about customers complaining about price
customers complaining about price is a
good sign
why would they complain if they didn't
love your product
like if they hate your product and your
pricing
they'll go elsewhere
so you won't even hear them
so a customer complaining about price
don't ignore it but also don't see it as
as imminent doom it it may be
a very earnest honest uh sincere signal
to you from from a committed customer
so with that i'll stop here and wish you
amazing
pricing success better than i have in my
career although i guess i would say i've
learned a trick now and pricing has
worked out very well for the past few
companies i've been running but it is
still there's nobody who's expert at
pricing
and there's a little bit of luck
involved
[Music]
you